Add new post: brave vs chrome (with adblockers) (#24)
tomkadwill/tomkadwill.github.io: _posts/2019-03-17-importance-of-using-linters-and-metrics-in-ruby-copy.markdown

---
layout:     post
title:      "Brave vs Google Chrome (with ad blockers)"
date:       2019-03-09 16:39:00 +0000
permalink:  'brave-vs-chrome-with-ad-blockers'
---

> [Brave Browser](https://brave.com/) has been around for a few years. It became more usable when the company released a new version that was built on Chromium. A few people recommended that I switch to Brave. I tried but never stuck with it. However, with growing controversy about Google's data collection practises and Chrome's dominance, I decided to test Brave and figure out whether it's worth switching to. If Brave's browsing experiance is good, I plan to switch perminantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Brave Browser](https://brave.com/) has been around for a few years. It became more usable when the company released a new version that was built on Chromium. A few people recommended that I switch to Brave. I tried but never stuck with it. However, with growing controversy about Google's data collection practises and Chrome's dominance, I decided to test Brave and figure out whether it's worth switching to. If Brave's browsing experience is good, I plan to switch permanently.
```

Author: 👍

Brave's answer to this new model is Basic Attention Tokens (BAT). These are blockchain based tokens stored in Brave's built in wallet. Users can buy BAT tokens and configure Brave to distribute them to their favourite blogs, YouTube videos, newspapers etc. There are a couple of ways to configure the distribution of BAT tokens but by default Brave will distribute the money based on time spent on each site. For example, If you agree to distribute £100 of BAT tokens per month and spend 5% of your browsing time this month watching MKBHD tech videos, he will get £5 in BAT.

### Why would anyone switch from Chrome to Brave?
Chrome has a huge market share, [somewhere between 60-70%](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_web_browsers). [Many](http://www.zeldman.com/2018/12/07/browser-diversity-starts-with-us/) [people](https://redalemeden.com/blog/2019/we-need-chrome-no-more) [believe](https://www.chriskrycho.com/2017/chrome-is-not-the-standard.html) this is having a adverse affect on the web because it gives Google huge power over web standards. As a private company, they’re incentivised to use their power for personal benefit over what is good for the web.

> Google has come under fire lately for privacy concerns. For example, Chrome shipped a change that when you sign into any Google service, [Chrome automatically signs you in to Chrome](https://blog.cryptographyengineering.com/2018/09/23/why-im-leaving-chrome/). Then there's the concern about sharing your browsing data with a company that also has your Google search data, Andriod mobile data, YouTube browsing history, reads all your Gmail messages, can see all your trips on Google Maps. And these are just the well known Google services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google has come under fire lately for privacy concerns. For example, Chrome shipped a change that when you sign into any Google service, [Chrome automatically signs you in to Google](https://blog.cryptographyengineering.com/2018/09/23/why-im-leaving-chrome/). Then there's the concern about sharing your browsing data with a company that also has your Google search data, Andriod mobile data, YouTube browsing history, reads all your Gmail messages, can see all your trips on Google Maps. And these are just the well known Google services.
```

Author: What the diff here?

On The Guardian's site, for example, you can see that Brave reports that it blocked 17 items where ABP only blocked 8.

![abp-guardian-website](/assets/abp-guardian-website.png){:.image-50}

![brave-guardian-website](/assets/brave-guardian-website.png){:.image-50}

When I looked at the network traffic Brave made 178 requests and Chrome, with ABP, made 238 requests.

![abp-guardian-website-network-traffic](/assets/abp-guardian-website-network-traffic.png){:.image-50}

![brave-guardian-website-network-traffic](/assets/brave-guardian-website-network-traffic.png){:.image-50}

TODO: zoom in on the important details here

With a fast internet connection, 20-30% speed improvement is not particularly noticeable. But for users with slower connections the difference could be noticeable.

**Memory consumption**

I tested the memory consumption of Brave, Chrome and Chromium. I tested them with 0 tabs, 1 tab, 2 tabs, 6 tabs, 10 tabs and 20 tabs. The tests were conducted 3 times each.

![brave-chrome-chromium-memory-consumption](/assets/brave-chrome-chromium-memory-consumption.png)

> Chrome and Brave have the same resting (0 tabs) memory usage. As the number of tabs increase, Brave outperforms. Above 6 tabs Brave uses 20-30% less memory. I haven't found any evidence to explain why Brave has better memory usage, given that both browsers are based off Chrome. I can only guess that Chrome has more bloatware.

Reviewer: > I can only guess that Chrome has more bloatware.

It's extensions and having more stuff blocked by default which reduces the memory usage.

Author: Do you mean Chrome has more extension installed by default?

Reviewer: @tomkadwill No, people often just install lots of rubbish ones, which try to do a lot of each page load.
